How are you, I'm Matthias and I'm here to
guide you in your first game of magic.
To win a game of magic, we must
reduce the opponent's life total
from 20 to 0.
Generally, we do this by attacking
with our creatures and casting
spells to ensure that the opponent
's creatures  opponent cannot
attack us
at the beginning of the game the decks are mixed
and it is decided randomly
who plays first you will draw a hand of
7 cards with which you can start the
game if you consider it acceptable
otherwise you can try
again by mixing and drawing 7  new
cards once you find a
suitable hand you must return a card
to the bottom of the deck for each extra try
there are two types of cards lands and
spells your game will always begin by
playing a land from your hand to the
playing field you can play one land per
turn  the lands represent the mana
you will use to cast your spells you
will see each spell in magic has a
mana cost that indicates the number and
color needed to cast that spell
for example this card requires 2
white mana and 1 of any color while
this card  requires one red mana and 2
of any color this line indicates the
type of spell we are casting
some spells remain on the
playing field such as creatures
planeswalkers artifacts or
enchantments while other types of
spells such as instants or
sorceries have an effect and then  they go to
your graveyard to cast any of
these spells you use your lands in
play to generate mana
to use your lands you simply
tap them to the right that is tapped
represents that the card has been used
for the turn at the beginning of each turn
untap all your cards  tapped
during your turn you can cast spells
before or after combat. These two
main phases of spellcasting
are when you can play a land from your
hand that you can summon creatures
or cast any spell for which
a particular type of spell is now available.
Instants
can be played at any time
such as during combat or even
during the opponent's turn so
let's think of the turn as follows
your turn begins untap all
your cards and draw a new card for
your turn the only exception to this is the
first turn of the player who starts the
game where he will skip this phase for the
only time then you can play a land
and cast any spell for which
you have mana available
then you can attack your opponent with
creatures available on your
playing field that you see fit once
Once the attackers are determined, your opponent
can select blockers from his
available creatures. Once the blocking phase is over,
combat damage is assigned.
You can then play a land again
if you have not played one prior to
combat and cast any spell for
which you finally have mana available.
your turn ends and your
opponent's turn begins let's talk now about what
happens during combat this is the
strength of a creature during
combat creatures deal damage equal to
their strength
this is the toughness of a creature
takes damage equal to or greater than  their
resistance dies and goes to your semen. If
an attacking creature is not blocked
that damage goes to the player's life points
all creatures that were
damaged but not killed are
fully healed at the end of each turn
as the goal in magic is to reduce  the
opponent's life total from 20 to 0
your creatures will only attack your
opponent in combat you declare the
creatures you want to attack with
by tapping those creatures that
can block are only those that
are untapped remember so
a tapped creature will not be able to block
when  your opponent attacks you
important creatures cannot
attack the same turn in which they are
played because they suffer from
summoning sickness after selecting
attackers your opponent can select
blockers and which creatures block
which since multiple creatures
can block one  same attacker
then the damage resolves everything at the same
time in case of multiple blockers
the attacking player decides how to distribute
the damage between those creatures, having to
assign lethal damage to one first in order
to damage the next let's see an
example and take advantage of the opportunity
how instants work let's say
I am attacking with an onak ogre and my
opponent decides to block with a wishing crab
normally my creature
would die but I have in my
disfigured hand that it is an instant
at any time during the
combat phase I can play this instant I
pay its mana cost and  I play disfigure
on the wishing crab once
my opponent has decided on his blocker
now the crab is smaller and
it should be enough to win the
match
but then my opponent plays
titanic growth on his crab another instant
now his crab is bigger and  my
ogre dies
important remember that
instant spells can be cast even
in response to your opponent's spells
so that the last
spell cast is the one that will take effect
first once the combat and your two
main phases have ended you
pass the  turn to your opponent and those are
the bases for playing each card is unique
and affects the game and its rules in
different ways if you have doubts about how
a particular card works
you can search for it by name at gander
dot wizards dotcom and you will find
information on how  It works also
remember that magic arena has an
excellent tutorial to take your first
steps in the game now that you know the
basics you can go challenge your friends
[Music]